Studio Massa’s public official Ongezellig spoiler document
(fan-translated)
On the occasion of Maya's ?th birthday: a final compilation of all the information about Ongezellig that you are still due.
Note for translators: my writing is very Dutch so be weary of idioms and references being lost in translation when using a machine translator.





















Very Very Very Important Disclaimer:
This document was primarily translated from Dutch to English using a mixture of DeepL, Google Translate and ChatGPT4o, with assistance from official Studio Massa Discord. As such, the translations may contain inaccuracies. Readers are advised not to take any actions or make decisions based on potential mistranslations without verifying the information from the original source.
Maya  
Maya Schoppenboer was born Sept. 21 (Translator’s note: what year each character was born is unverified) in North Brabant as her parents' only biological child. Her father Ravi is half North Brabant and half Hindustani-Surinamese. Her mother Soei is half Moluccan and half Chinese-Indonesian.


The reason for Maya's disposition are:
* AD(H)D’ers are generally at a disadvantage regarding social contact.
* Trauma from the loss of her cat Noga, whom she had to give up because Coco was allergic to it.
* Overshadowed by her more talented adopted sisters, whom she suspects were adopted to compensate for her.
* Unlucky, as few people in the area have the same interests
Inspiration for Maya


* An old character from a bad comic (Translator’s note: Mayo and Curry) from my teenage years
* Own experiences around the same age (you grow out of it)
* The last name Schoppenboer was derived from the Afrikaans word for “Magere Hein” (Translator’s note: this means Thin Hein or Lean Hein, a Dutch folklore character similar to the Grim Reaper; Personifications of death - Wikipedia) cause it sounded cool.


  
  

(left: predecessors of Coco (Mayo) and Maya (Curry), right: concept for Maya's parents)
Misconceptions about Maya
Maya is based on Tomoko from the manga/anime Watamote
Half true: Maya is based in appearance on an old character of mine and adapted for Ongezellig with fairly common tropes for this type of character, such as hair for eyes, social incompetence, sitting alone at recess and escapism via cartoons (oriental or otherwise), are based on experiences of myself and many others in the same situation. However, what Watamote did inspire is the confidence that this is an interesting enough subject to base an animation on.
Maya is an Indonesian
This was indeed hinted at, but I thought it was ultimately more interesting to give her a melting pot of ethnicities to heighten her identity crisis.
Maya has autism
There is much more overlap between AD(H)D and autism than many people apparently think, and much of the “evidence” cited for Maya's autism is equally attributable to AD(H)D.
  

(Translated: I was always told that ADHD and autism are opposites. People with autism generally like routine, can be deeply focused for very long periods of time [called hyperfocusing] and have difficulty recognizing social cues. ADHD people, on the other hand, have occasional hyperfocus, but are impulsive and often switch from one thing to another. At the same time, there is much overlap: both groups become easily overstimulated and may have difficulty with social contact [although the “core” is often different]. But what if you have both?)
ADD is an outdated medical term! It’s called ADHD now-
I know, but then the “Autism Denial Disorder” joke wouldn't work.
Coco
  Coco Potgieter was born on Dec. 16 in Bloemfontein, South Africa. She was adopted after her father and pregnant mother were killed in an accident involving a lightning strike. The loss of her parents and unborn sibling is the cause of affection toward her new family, pent-up anger and chronic existential angst.


Coco plays rugby as a sport and drums in the eurobeat folk band “Running in the 60's” with Cleo (guitar), Zoey (bass guitar) and Yfke (synthesizer). 
Inspiration for Coco
* An old character from a bad comic from my teenage years.
* Actually just an antithesis of Maya.
* An obsession with the Dutch history of South Africa (you grow out of it).
* I knew a South African named Potgieter and I thought it was a nice name.
Misconceptions about Coco
Coco’s parents were murdered
Be honest: if you believed this, it was probably because you wanted it to be true a little bit.
Coco is stupid
She is mostly bad with technology and skipped puberty.
Haha Coco swears with “Kitty/Puss”, how cute  
(Translated, from Poes - Wikipedia: 
“Poes” is an obscene word in Afrikaans that refers to the human vulva (external female genitals). It is the direct adoption of the Dutch word “poes” which refers to a female cat. Reference can also be made to the correlation between the Afrikaans use of the word “poes” and the English use of the word puss or pussy which also refers to the female genitalia. It is usually unacceptable to utter the word in formal or civilized company.)
Mymy
  

Mymy was born 橘迷子 (Meiko Tachibana) on March 3 in Nagasaki, Japan, but ran away from Japan because she liked the Netherlands better. She has an older biological sister Eiko (英子) who is actively looking for her.


Mymy plays accordion and korfball, is in love with Captain Koek but also doesn't say no to Mr. Owl (see a pattern?). Her best friends are Cato and Bert and she is frenemies with Kiki.
(Translator’s note: korfball is a Dutch sport similar to basketball)
(Translator’s note: Mr. Owl, or as he’s known in Dutch, Meneer de Uil is a character from the classic Dutch children’s tv show “De Fabeltjeskrant”; Meneer de Uil - Wikipedia)
Inspiration for Mymy
* A trump card for tying the Stille Willem audience to Ongezellig (Translator’s note: the Stille Willem videos on the Studio Massa channel)
* Adolescents who LARP with exaggerated identities for attention (you grow out of it).
* Name comes from the South African version of Kleine Mie from the Moemins (Translator’s note: Moemins is Moonmins in Dutch, Kleine Mie is “Little My”)
* Clothes are colored like the Dutch flag with orange hair as a pennant.
Misconceptions about Mymy
Mymy is a nazi
What is patriotic about collaborating with the occupier?
Mymy is a racist
“Belgians aren’t a race!” Mymy's only real problem with Belgium is that it exists: once she has annexed Flanders, all her prejudices will disappear like snow in the sun. Furthermore, Mymy is mostly the type who still calls Germans “Krauts” when she demands her bike back and liked the Carnival Festival more before the renovation.
Mymy wears the colors of the Prinsenvlag
Orange red on top.
(Translator’s note: The “Prinsenvlag”, or “Prince’s flag” refers to a historical Dutch flag that features three horizontal stripes: orange, white and blue. It’s associated with William of Orange/William the Silent (Willem van Oranje/Stille Willem), a key figure in the Dutch struggle for independence. Over time, this flag evolved into what is now the Dutch national flag, which uses red instead of orange. “Red on top” refers to the modern Dutch flag’s color arrangement, where the top stripe is red, followed by white, then blue.)
Mymy changed her appearance to look more Dutch
Red herring: she knows her sister is looking for her and her metamorphosis is mainly for disguise.
Mymy and Kiki are a couple
Based on a flashback in the last volume (Translator’s note: Flashback scene in Part 6). The illustrator of the flashback drew it this way because he thought it was cute and had no romantic intentions here.
Everyone has 4 letters in their name except Mymy's birth name (Meiko)
Yes, that's why she changed it.
Vera
Vera's background is already adequately detailed in the illustrations.    
What more could you want?
Inspirations behind Vera
* An old character for a school assignment
* Hairstyle was taken from April May from Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney
Maya's imaginary friends
Maya's fake friends Epke and Anke are based on the only existing people with whom she has ever had a click but has never been able to build it into a friendly relationship.


Epke's backstory is detailed in Maya's Conversation. It was planned to introduce Anke in a sequel, but that didn't happen.
Classmates
  

    - Kiki: Somali pirate-to-be
    - Axel: kakker (Translator’s note: “Kakker” is Dutch slang for someone stuck-up or pompous)
    - Roos: Franco-Belgian comic lover
    - Adam: I don't know either (Translator’s note: Massa’s words, not mine)
    - Goof: only listens to nu-metal (Translator’s note: ew)
    - Yfke: SMOKE WEED EVERYDAY
    - Stan: is in his Inca phase
    - Wiel: nozem (Translator’s note: Nozem)
    - Trijn/Tryn: wears such traditional clothing that she might accidentally vote her rights away
    - Rens: Efteluencer (Translator’s note: Influencer who creates social media content related to           Efteling)
    - Cleo: only goth on the Leeward islands
    - Bert: E&M hardliner (Translator’s note: refers to an educational path Dutch children may take in         secondary school: Profiel economie en maatschappij - Wikipedia)
    - Ilse: not Anne Frank
    - Henk: in love with Caroline van der Plas
    - Cato: least arrogant Ajacied (Translator’s note: Ajacied is a Dutch term used to refer to a supporter or player of the football club AFC Ajax, from Amsterdam.)
    - Koos: says yes to MDMA
    - Zoey: not shy, just introverted
    - Sjef: Limbo representative (translator’s note: yeah I don’t know about this one, I think it means         they’re good at limbo???)
Wait, everyone has 4 letters in their name except Trijn/Tryn
Lingo Rules (Translator’s note: “IJ” is considered a “long y”, therefore it counts as 1 character)  
Errors & non-canon
All images of Ongezellig characters through summer 2018 are concepts in which Ongezellig did not yet have a form and nothing about the characters was fixed. These are all non-canon, of course.
  

(Sample non-canon concept from 2017 of older characters with red-haired Coco)
* The first three parts in particular are aesthetically behind the later parts. The backgrounds, colors and picture quality are substandard and everyone's necks are way too thick.
* In Part 1, there is a curtain on Maya's wall that connects to Mymy's room. This makes no sense and is improved in Part 6.
* In Part 1, in the passport photos, it looks like Mymy changed shape in one go. In retrospect, this transfiguration could have been better staggered with, say, tufts of orange hair.
* Maya's hair is naturally dark brown, but appears black because she does not use shampoo. This was decided much later and should have been reflected in the passport photos.
* In Part 3, Mymy has long sleeves in one shot that obviously should have been short.
* The ending of Part 3 is far too sentimental for my taste and I would probably handle it differently in a remaster.
* Maya's Sweet 16 is more of an experiment in drama than an official part of the Ongezellig lore. The result of the experiment is that I suck at comic book drawing, or Ongezellig just doesn't work in comic book form. Also, this comic is drawn in a very wistful period so the content can come across as rather tone deaf compared to the animation.
* Maya's Conversation is more of an experiment in comic book drawing outsourcing than an official part of the Ongezellig lore.
* Many of the illustrations through 2022 are based on supporter ideas and not all canon. Illustrations in which characters wear costumes are usually alternate scenarios that should not be taken seriously, and the illustration HikikoMymy presents an alternate scenario in which Mymy stayed in Japan.
* In the illustration MymyDebat, Vera smokes cigarettes which breaks the joke that Vera has harmless stimulants (Jip & Janneke “champagne” and cigarette lollipops), so pretend she lit chocolate cigarettes.
Ideas for other episodes
In order of potential (all not figured out and hence non-canon):
Maya’s friend
Eiko has discovered Mymy's whereabouts and enters the class disguised as a Korean exchange student. She manipulates Maya into a friendship with the goal of kidnapping Mymy to Japan.
Mymy vs. Santa Claus
Sinterklaas enlists the help of Mymy to drive Santa Claus out of Holland for good.
Coco stops bullying
Coco discovers that Maya is being bullied, whereupon Coco stalks and gaslights the bully until he finally goes insane.
Mymy conquers Belgium
Mymy and Kiki declare war on Belgium and occupy the enclave of No Man's Land in North Brabant.
Maya becomes a band member
Coco gives Maya a spot in her band as a triangle player to give her the idea of a group of friends, but discovers that this is not how it works.
Class Representative Elections
Mymy tries to become class representative at the expense of Kiki's Pirate Party.
Maya’s cat
Noga must be put to sleep and Maya reflects on how her only friend is taken from her for the second time.
Queen Mymy
Mymy realizes that marrying Princess Amalia is her only chance to actually become Queen of the Netherlands.
End
Giving away the end of a hypothetical Ongezellig series here and now seems many times more anticlimactic to me than leaving it open.
Production Questions
Who was the target audience of Ongezellig?
Actually mostly me, a Dutchman who is not satisfied with the Dutch offerings on YouTube. You could scale this up to anyone who can identify with it, but Ongezellig is primarily an intrinsic project.
What software was Ongezellig made with?
Ongezellig was animated with TVPaint 11 (except some scenes with Moho), edited with Vegas Pro and composed with FL Studio. All purchased legally, believe it or not.
How many people worked on Ongezellig?
Parts 1+2 were made by myself (excluding voice actresses). From Part 3 to Part 6, I hired workers and interns. In the end, in addition to myself, 4 voice actresses, 4 freelancers and 4 interns worked on Ongezellig, but not at the same time..
Why is Ongezellig so Dutch?
Because I am Dutch (actual question I was asked).
What is the official [insert foreign language] translation of Ongezellig?
None, since Ongezellig is untranslatable. All attempts to do so (especially “Unsociable”) miss the mark.
(Translator’s note: The name of the animation,“Ongezellig”, is often mistranslated to “Unsociable”, there is no direct english translation for “Ongezellig”)
Why is there no official dubbing?
  

Ongezellig is not for children.
Can I dub Ongezellig myself?
Amateurish dubbing of Ongezellig are, as far as I know, never done by people who actually understand the Dutch language. Usually it is a translation of a translation and that is asking for mistakes. If you then also have to start interpreting Dutch idioms and references without prior knowledge, I don't expect much good. Dubbing is tolerated but none is officially recognized.
Why is there no merchandise?
Ongezellig stands on its own and does not need to be exploited with soulless consumer junk. The only official merchandise was a poster of Mymy Zedong because I could still see the fun in that, but then again it proved too radicalized by Spreadshirt's guidelines. Only when profits go to charity can I rationalize Ongezellig merch.
Why is there merchandise from other projects?
“Kokosnoten zijn geen specerijen” (Coconuts are not spices) doesn't have a soul to sell (even though I wouldn't have started that today) and the [Dutch History] Iceberg poster has educational value.
Why not a Patreon?
Patreon does not have iDEAL and foreigners could find Petje.af quite easily. I got exactly one email from a foreigner who really wanted Patreon anyway, and I didn't think it was worth it for that one person.
Why is there no [insert social media platform] for Ongezellig/Studio Massa?
Social media and its effects have been disastrous for the human race. You can email me, and I'm on the Petje section of My Discord Server for my clients, anything beyond that I will leave for what it is.
This is not a question but Jesus, you are really very bad at marketing.
That C&M (Culture and Society) mentality. Right? On the other hand, if I had done E&M (Economics and Society) you'd probably have a shit animation with excellent promotion right now.
(Translator note: C&M and E&M both refers to the collection of courses that a Dutch student in secondary education may take)
Future Questions
Despite the fact that, in my opinion, the official closing fairly clearly knitted an end to the story, there is apparently still ambiguity about the lack of future of Ongezellig. I have to go into this subject a little more rigorously than I would like to eliminate all doubts.
Is Ongezellig discontinued/stopped?
Yes.
Is Ongezellig really really really discontinued/stopped?
Yes.
And Ongezellig won’t be continued in any medium other than animation either?
Yes.
Why was Ongezellig discontinued/stopped?
1. Burn-out as a result of taking on too many responsibilities
        (Translator’s note: roughly translated, this meant: “Burnout required less hay on my fork”,         which is a reference to the Dutch idiom “te veel hooi op je vork nemen”, meaning to take on too         much work or responsibility)
2. Exhaustion after working on the same project for 7 years
3. Limited chance of successful pitch (too labor-intensive for too niche an audience)
4. Not convinced that target amount can be achieved and maintained
5. Sufficient (and in some cases more) support, affinity and enjoyment of history content and its audience


In the end, it was better to pull the plug in a timely manner than to keep one on the line forever. I expect the same treatment when I become demented.


Furthermore, the discontinuation of Ongezellig is due to the sum of these reasons. Hyperfocusing on any one of these as the ultimate reason is a case of tunnel vision.
Why more of an affinity with history content audiences?
I am an adult Dutchman and make videos in the Dutch language on Dutch subjects, whether they are history videos or Ongezellig. The viewers of my history videos are also largely adult Dutch people, while a large part of the viewers of Ongezellig are a lot younger and from every corner of the world.


Besides the obvious language, cultural and generational differences, Ongezellig is often handled in a way that conflicts with the tastes of thirty-year-old cheeseheads. So you get an alienation between creator and audience that reminds me of why “Doe Maar” stopped in 1984:
The band had great difficulty coping with success, fostering a growing distance from their increasingly younger audiences, who often overreacted to them with frenzy


Ergo it is not a personal attack that I generally - with the many individual exceptions - have a stronger connection with the audience of my history content.
But I read on the internet that [insert fabrication]
Dutch readers can skip this paragraph because this is an English-only phenomenon. Presumably the official information is often thrown around haphazardly, poorly translated or misinterpreted. Then the gaps are filled in by outsiders with sometimes inimitable speculations that seem more like wishful thinking than dry truth.


To prevent mistranslation this part is in verified English (Translator’s note: the previous paragraph was not in English, this one is). Like Abraham Lincoln said: not everything you read on the internet is true. This document is the official word of the creator and anything that’s not in here was probably made up by some rando for whatever reason.
Can't the target amount be achieved with [insert suggestion]?
This you can only speculate. Even with all the suggestions I see coming along, I personally don't think so. Living off crowdfunding is only for the biggest successes and that is something Ongezellig wasn’t, especially considering how much labor the “success” of Ongezellig required.


To return again to tunnel vision: even if the target amount could be achieved and maintained, I'd still be slumped and burned out. If the prospects had been a lot more optimistic I could have gotten over this, but in this situation it is unwise to put your career on the line.
Would you ever sell the rights to Ongezellig?
  
(Translated: HAHAHA, NO)
Don't worry, I'll give them away for free 70 years after I die.
(Translator’s note: Public domain/copyright law joke)
Could someone else continue Ongezellig?
  
You're not going to finish Het Achterhuis (Translator’s note: Anne Frank’s diary, The Diary of a Young Girl; the original title, Het Achterhuis translates to “The Annex” or “The Secret Annex”), either. From bringing the dead to life you only get zombies. A little fanart at times is fine but taking inspiration from Ongezellig for your own creation is much more interesting.
What is the future of Studio Massa?
Hobby projects on Dutch history without ambitions for a full-time YouTube career and eventually death.

Translator’s Addendum
Link to original document
Link to Petje #130 (discontinuation of Ongezellig)
Link to publicly released illustrations